fix(style-guide): Add cross-referencing guidelines and clarify external link guidelines in See also section (#28862)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/writing_style_guide/index.md

While the primary goal of any writing on MDN Web Docs should always be to explain and inform about open web technology so developers can quickly learn to do what they want or to find the little details they need to know in order to perfect their code, it's important that they be able to _find_ the material we write. We can achieve this by keeping Search Engine Optimization ({{Glossary("SEO")}}) in mind while writing.

> This section covers the standard practices, recommendations, and requirements for content to help ensure that search engines can easily categorize and index our material to ensure that readers can easily reach what they need. The SEO guidelines includes ensuring that each page writers and editors work on is reasonably well-designed, written, and marked up to give search engines the context and clues they need to properly index the articles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers the standard practices, recommendations, and requirements for content to help ensure that search engines can easily categorize and index our material to ensure that readers can easily find what they need. The SEO guidelines includes ensuring that each page that writers and editors work on is reasonably well-designed, written, and marked up to give search engines the context and clues they need to properly index the articles.
```

  Here are some basic guidelines to help you create pages that have enough content to be properly searchable without resorting to cluttering them up with unnecessary text:

  - **Avoid stubs**: Obviously, if the article is a stub or is missing content, add it. We try to avoid outright "stub" pages on MDN web Docs, although they do exist, but there are plenty of pages that are missing large portions of their content.

>   - **Review page structure**: Review the page to ensure that it's structured properly for the [type of page](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types) it is. Be sure every section that it should have is present and has appropriate content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Review page structure**: Review the page to ensure that it's structured properly for its [page type](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types). Be sure that all sections are present, and have appropriate content.
```

  - **Explain use cases**: If there are particularly common use cases for the feature being described, talk about them! Instead of assuming that a user will figure out that the method being documented can be used to solve a common development problem, actually add a section about that use case with an example and text explaining how the example works.
  - **Add image information**: Include proper [`alt`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#alt) text on all images and diagrams. This text, as well as captions on tables and other figures, counts because spiders can't crawl images, and so `alt` text tells search engine crawlers what content the embedded media contains.
    > **Note:** It is not recommended to include too many keywords or keywords not related to the feature in an attempt to manipulate search engine rankings; this type of behavior is easy to spot and tends to be penalized.
    > Likewise, **do not** add repetitive, unhelpful material or blobs of keywords within the actual page, in an attempt to improve the page's size and search ranking. This does more harm than good, both to content readability and to our search results.

>   - **Focus on topic content**: With Google's Hummingbird update in 2013, there has been an increasing focus on the use of natural language to convey information. This means that it is far better to write content around the topic of the page than a specific keyword. It is highly likely that there will be many keywords you could include for a given topic; in fact, many SEOs compile a list of 5-100 different keywords (varying between short, medium, and long-tail keywords) to include within their article, depending on the length. Doing so will diversify your wording, leading to less repetition.

Reviewer: "<!--do we need to retain this-->" I think you disposed of the wrong section :-)

```suggestion
  - **Focus on topic content**: It is far better to write content around the topic of the page than a specific keyword. It is highly likely that there will be many keywords you could include for a given topic; in fact, many SEOs compile a list of 5-100 different keywords (varying between short, medium, and long-tail keywords) to include within their article, depending on the length. Doing so will diversify your wording, leading to less repetition.
```

An abbreviation is a shortened version of a longer word, while an acronym is a new word created using the first letter of each word from a phrase. This section describes guidelines for abbreviations and acronyms.

> - **Expansions**: On the first mention of a term on a page, expand acronyms that are likely to be unfamiliar to users. When in doubt, expand it; or better yet, link it to the article or [glossary](/en-US/docs/Glossary) entry describing the technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Expansions**: On the first mention of a term on a page, expand acronyms that are likely to be unfamiliar to users. When in doubt, expand the term! Better yet, link it to the article or [glossary](/en-US/docs/Glossary) entry describing the technology.
```

These are our recommendations for using certain technical terms:

- **HTML elements**: Use "elements" to refer to HTML and XML elements, rather than "tags". In addition, they should almost always be wrapped in "<>", and should be in the {{HTMLElement("code")}} style.

>   When you reference a given element for the first time in a section, you should use the [`HTMLElement`](https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/main/kumascript/macros/HTMLElement.ejs) <!--this link should point to the macro's documentation--> macro to create a link to the documentation for the element (unless you're writing within that element's reference document page).

Author: Moved the `HTMLElement` macro part to the "Cross-references" section

> - **HTML elements**: Use "elements" to refer to HTML and XML elements, instead of "tags". In addition, the elements should almost always be wrapped in angle brackets "<>", and should be styled using {{HTMLElement("code")}}.

Reviewer 2: not the focus of this PR, but should we link code to how to write card in markdown instead of the code page?

Author: This is talking about the styling of elements within a sentence using `<code>`. And I realize what we really mean is styling using backticks. I've separately explain what the macro achieves. I've rewritten this part as:

> - **HTML elements**: Use the term "element" to refer to HTML and XML elements, instead of "tag". In addition, the elements should be wrapped in angle brackets "<>" and should be styled using backticks (\`). For example, using \<input\> inside backticks will style it as `<input>` as is expected.
> 
>   - **Correct**: the `<span>` element
>   - **Incorrect**: the span tag
> 
>   On MDN, you can specify the HTML element in the [`HTMLElement` macro](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros#linking_to_pages_in_references), which will style the element, add the angle brackets "<>", as well as add a link to its reference page.
> 
>   - **Using backticks**: `<span>`
>   - **Using the macro**: {{HTMLElement("span")}} (source in markdown: \\{{HTMLElement("span")\}})

Your point about linking to how to write code in markdown is valid. Many of of those pages are subpages in the "writing_style_guide" directory and currently not exposed. I've now added links to those pages in a new "See also" section".

This section lists the guidelines to follow for components such as headings, notes, links, and examples that commonly appear on a page.

- [Code examples](#code_examples)

> - [Cross-references (linking)](#cross-references)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cross-references (linking)](#cross-references_linking)
```

Author: Thanks for fixing!

  - **Result explanation**: An explanation after the example code that describes the result and how the code works.
- In general, the code example should not only demonstrate the syntax of the feature and how it is used, but also highlight the purpose and situations in which a web developer might want or need to use the feature.
- If you are working with a large piece of example code, it may make sense to break it up into smaller logical parts so that they can be described individually.

> - When adding [live samples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), it's helpful to be aware that all of the {{HTMLElement("pre")}} blocks in the area that contains the sample are concatenated together before running the example, which lets you break any or all of the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript into multiple segments, each optionally with its own descriptions, headings, and so forth. This makes documenting code incredibly powerful and flexible.

Reviewer: I think this predates wiki - the "pre" blocks are HTML you used to use to define css, html etc.

```suggestion
- When adding [live samples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), it's helpful to be aware that all of the sample's code blocks that have the same type (HTML, CSS, or JavaScript) are concatenated together before running the example. This lets you break the code into multiple segments, each optionally with its own descriptions, headings, and so forth. This makes documenting code incredibly powerful and flexible.
```

Author: Thanks

To learn about how to style or format code examples for MDN Web Docs, see [Guidelines for styling code examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide/Code_style_guide).

> ### Cross-references

Reviewer: Not sure about the title. Linking to topics (cross references)? It kind of feels odd to have two sections on linking. 

If we can't merge them, can we cross reference them? :-)

Author: I took the inspiration from Google's style guide: https://developers.google.com/style/cross-references.

I've added the following at the end of the "Cross-references" section:

> In the See also sections in reference pages, glossary pages, and guides, we follow the same cross-referencing guidelines to add links to MDN pages. For more details on the specific ordering and linking rules within the See also section, refer to the [See also section](#see-also-section) guidelines below.

Reviewer: I like this sentence. I would still ask you to consider this option:

```suggestion
### Cross-references (linking)
```

Author: Done

> When linking to a page on MDN, follow sentence casing in the link text, that is, match the case used in the page title. Don't use quotation marks around the link text. To add a link to a page on MDN, use the following style:

Reviewer: "When linking to a page on MDN," implies you **always** must follow this rule. But this rule is just when you are referring to a particular page by name 

```suggestion
When referencing a particular page on MDN using a link, follow sentence casing in the link text (match the page title). Don't use quotation marks around the link text. To add a link to a specific page on MDN, use the following style:
```

Just by way of contrast, I would not use sentence casing here

> If you're just [Getting started with HTML](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started) then you should ....

But would do:

> If you're just [getting started with HTML](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started) then you should ....

Author: I see, I hadn't considered that perspective. How about the following rewording:

> When referencing another page or the section of a page on MDN by its title, follow sentence casing in the link text (match the page or section title). Don't use quotation marks around the link text. To refer to a page on MDN by its title, use the following style:

Yes :) in that particular example, the page title integrates well 'as is' as part of the sentence.

I've updated the example to:

> - **Correct**: "See the [Ordering flex items](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Ordering_flex_items) guide."

And used the same example a few paras below to show how the same page can be linked without using the page title as is:

> - **Correct**: "Learn more about [how to order flex items](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Ordering_flex_items)."

Reviewer: That works for me.

- **Correct**: "Refer to the [Getting started with HTML](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started) guide."
- **Incorrect**: "Refer to the "[Getting started with HTML](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started)" guide."

Follow similar style when linking to a section on a page, as shown below:

> - **Correct**: "For more information, see the [Allocation in JavaScript](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Memory_management#allocation_in_javascript) section on the Memory management page."

Reviewer: It MIGHT be worth using highlighting here for the page - like this:

```suggestion
- **Correct**: "For more information, see the [Allocation in JavaScript](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Memory_management#allocation_in_javascript) section on the _Memory management_ page."
```

I personally feel that level of highlighting is useful is "as a reader", but that's very much a personal taste.

Author: Agree, that does look better for readability

> If the section you're linking to is on the same page, indicate so by hinting at the location of the section by using the words "above" or "below".

Reviewer: I'd be a bit more flexible on this as a rule.
```suggestion
If the section you're linking to is on the same page, you can hint at the location of the section using the words "above" or "below".
```

Author: I've incorporated your suggestion and revised the phrasing, but I'd prefer making this a standard practice. As a reader, I appreciate knowing whether a link will keep me on the same page. If the section is indeed on the current page, I may choose to defer reading it, knowing I'll naturally come across it later.

- **Correct**: "This concept is described in more detail in the [Accessibility concerns](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/gradient/repeating-conic-gradient#accessibility_concerns) section below."

You can link part of a sentence to an article or the section of an article. Be mindful to use descriptive phrases as link texts to provide enough context for the page being linked.

> - **Correct**: "Learn more about [how to add a user interface with a chrome.manifest](/en-US/docs/Extensions/Bootstrapped_extensions#Adding_user_interface_with_a_chrome.manifest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Correct**: "Learn more about [how to add a user interface with a chrome.manifest](/en-US/docs/Extensions/Bootstrapped_extensions#Adding_user_interface_with_a_chrome.manifest)."
```

- **Incorrect**: "Click [here](/en-US/docs/Extensions/Bootstrapped_extensions#Adding_user_interface_with_a_chrome.manifest) to learn more."

> - **Incorrect**: "Read [this article](/en-US/docs/Extensions/Bootstrapped_extensions#Adding_user_interface_with_a_chrome.manifest) to learn more."

Reviewer: This feels wrong because I would never use the first "Correct" option except in a list - as a follow on sentence it is incomplete - except we just "know" that its a link.

Probably I'd do `"Read [this section on adding a chrome manifest](/en-US/docs/Extensions/Bootstrapped_extensions#Adding_user_interface_with_a_chrome.manifest) to learn more.`"

Author: I've changed this example as part of [my previous response](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/28862#discussion_r1314283533) (and also it was causing a broken link).

Also, the "Cross-references" section provides general guidelines for links anywhere in content and slightly different from how we would write list items in the "See also" section. I've talked more about this in [my response to another comment](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/28862#discussion_r1314281346).

> To link to reference pages, you can use one of the corresponding macros. These set of macros are described on the [Commonly-used macros page](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros#linking_to_pages_in_references). For example, to link to the reference page of an HTML element, use the `HTMLElement` macro, and to link to the reference page of a CSS property, use the `CSSxRef` macro.

Reviewer: Macros are optional, and there is an ongoing discussion on whether or not to keep/use them. Upshot, this is not the only way. However if you do link reference you should match the same pattern as the macro - i.e. code style, and possibly having to use `<` around elements.

I'll leave you to think up some words :-)

Author: Agree and also realize we may move away from using macros. I added some words about macros in the "Terminology" section in [response](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/28862#discussion_r1313536845) to Estelle's comment (and also how to link when not using the macro, adding `<>` in case of HTML elements).

In this particular instance, I've reworded to indicate that macro is just another way to add links (and we can remove this paragraph when we remove all macros):

> On MDN, another way to link to a reference page is by using a macro. These macros are described on the [Commonly-used macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros#linking_to_pages_in_references) page. For example, to link to the reference page of an HTML element, use the `HTMLElement` macro, and to link to the reference page of a CSS property, use the `CSSxRef` macro.

- **Correct**: "This concept is described in more detail in the [Accessibility concerns](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/gradient/repeating-conic-gradient#accessibility_concerns) section below."

You can link part of a sentence to an article or the section of an article. Be mindful to use descriptive phrases as link texts to provide enough context for the page being linked.

- **Correct**: "Learn more about [how to order flex items](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Ordering_flex_items)."
- **Incorrect**: "Click [here](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Ordering_flex_items) to learn more."
- **Incorrect**: "Read [this article](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Ordering_flex_items) to learn more."

On MDN, another way to link to a reference page is by using a macro. These macros are described on the [Commonly-used macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros#linking_to_pages_in_references) page. For example, to link to the reference page of an HTML element, use the `HTMLElement` macro, and to link to the reference page of a CSS property, use the `CSSxRef` macro.

> In the See also sections in reference pages, glossary pages, and guides, we follow the same cross-referencing guidelines to add links to MDN pages. For more details on the specific ordering and linking rules within the See also section, refer to the [See also section](#see-also-section) guidelines below.

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
We follow similar cross-referencing guidelines in the [See also](#see-also-section) sections at the end of reference pages, glossary pages, and guides.
```

Author: Much better :). Thanks.

### See also section

Most of the guides, reference pages, and even glossary pages on MDN Web Docs contain a _See also_ section at the end of the article. This section contains [cross-references](#cross_references) to related topics within MDN and sometimes links to related external articles. For example, this is the [See also section](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer#see_also) for the `@layer` page.

In general, present the links in a See also section in a [bulleted list](#lists) format with each item in the list as a phrase. In the [Learn web development](/en-US/docs/Learn) area on MDN, however, the See also section follows the [definition list](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#definition_lists) format.

To maintain consistency across MDN Web Docs, keep the following guidelines in mind while adding or updating a See also section.

#### Link text

> - The link text should be the same as the title of the page or the section being linked to. For example, the link text to this [ARIA](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes) page with the page title "ARIA states and properties" will be:

Reviewer 3: Another point here: while we never use appropriate code formatting in titles, you should use code when it's a link. For example, "`Function`: `length`" and "`Array.prototype.at()`"

Author: Good point. I've added the following:

> - As shown in the above examples, add code formatting using backticks (\`) to keywords and literals in the link text, even though the formatting is not used in page and section titles. For example, for the page title "Array() constructor", the link text will be [`Array()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Array).

### See also section

> Most of the guides, reference pages, and even glossary pages on MDN Web Docs contain a _See also_ section at the end of the article. This section contains [cross-references](#cross_references) to related topics within MDN and sometimes links to related external articles. For example, this is the [See also section](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer#see_also) for the `@layer` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the guides, reference pages, and even glossary pages on MDN Web Docs contain a _See also_ section at the end of the article. This section contains [cross-references](#cross-references_linking) to related topics within MDN and sometimes links to related external articles. For example, this is the [See also section](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer#see_also) for the `@layer` page.
```

Author: Thanks!

#### Link text

- The link text should be the same as the title of the page or the section being linked to. For example, the link text to this [ARIA](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes) page with the page title "ARIA states and properties" will be:
  - **Correct**: [ARIA states and properties](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes)
- Use sentence casing in the link text even if it is different from the linked page title or section title. It might be that the case used in the page or section title is incorrect. For example, the link text to the [WAI-ARIA Roles](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles) page in correct sentence case will be:

>   - **Correct**: [WAI-ARIA roles](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles)

Reviewer: I was going to say that sentence case should be "Wai-aria roles". It isn't, but if we can find a "wrong example" where that doesn't start with an acronym that would be better. If not, ignore.

Author: Definitely, makes sense to use a different example that's not an acronym. How about:

> For example, the link text to the [Quirks Mode](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Quirks_Mode_and_Standards_Mode) page in correct sentence case will be:
>   - **Correct**: [Quirks mode](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Quirks_Mode_and_Standards_Mode)

(Ideally, the above guideline should not be required if/after we've fixed all our page and section titles to follow sentence casing.)

This guideline also applies to linking to page/section titles in general. I've added a hint in the "Cross-references" section as well.

Reviewer: Yes, that would be a lot better.

- For external links as well, use sentence casing even if the casing on the target article page is different. This is to ensure consistency across MDN Web Docs. Exceptions include names of books.

> - Use the appropriate macro to link to a page as defined in the [Linking to pages in references](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros#linking_to_pages_in_references) section. The use of macro will add code formatting to the keyword in the link text, as shown in the next example.

Reviewer: Optional

> - No article ("A", "An", "The") is needed at the beginning of the link list item. No punctuation is required at the end of the list item because it will invariably be a term or a phrase.

Reviewer: It might be good to have more examples here, not just a reference item. Your call, but this did make me think "what if this was a link to an article - would I be allowed to have text at the end.

Author: Added another example that links to an article:

>   - **Correct**: [HTML DOM API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_DOM_API)
>   - **Incorrect**: The [HTML DOM API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_DOM_API)

  - **Correct**: [Top-level await](https://v8.dev/features/top-level-await) on v8.dev (2019)
- For external links to books, you can also provide author names. You can see a few examples for this in the [Further reading](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide#language_grammar_and_spelling) section below. Refrain from adding author names for blog posts or GitHub repositories you might link to.

#### Order of links

> - For cross-referencing within MDN, list the links to reference pages first, followed by links to the related guide and tutorial pages.

Reviewer: Why? The guide is almost always the most important and useful thing to read next. Fact is, the correct order "depends".

Either way though, this might be better:

```suggestion
- See also lists that link to MDN topics should list reference pages first, followed by links to the related guide and tutorial pages.
```

Author: When I'd added that guideline for "See also", I was thinking about how to make the info (list items) easy to scan as a block. To help people quickly find what they're looking for in the list, I figured it'd be simpler to list all the code-styled pages first (which is our reference page) and then follow up with the guides. I thought this might also help when we're authoring – to follow a guideline and make it less subjective. Would also help to make the look and format of all "See also"s more consistent and predictable for readers.

Does this rewording help:

> List the links to MDN pages in the order of reference pages first, followed by links to the related guides and tutorial pages. This suggested order is mainly to aid in the scanability of the items in the list.

The "Cross-references" section I've added in this PR is a general guideline for how to add links anywhere in content to other pages. There have been questions and PRs about how do we link to a page by title and how do we link to the section of a page. I thought it was about time we specify that in our style guide :) so I've used this PR to add those guidelines in the "Cross-references" section (added this section before "External links" section; falls in place both alphabetically and sequentially).

While the general "Cross-references" guidelines apply to links in "See also" section, the "See also" section has its own additional recommendations of ordering of list items and the amount of info to add for each item. (The "[Link text](https://pr28862.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide#link_text)" sub-section in "See also" seems to be repeating some of the guidelines of the "Cross-references" section, but no harm in keeping them in.)

It does not help that we don't show the H3 titles in the page TOC on the right – that would have shown "Cross-references" and "See also section" as two sections under "Page components".

In the opening para of the "See also" section, I've now added a link to the "Cross-references" section.

> Most of the guides, reference pages, and even glossary pages on MDN Web Docs contain a _See also_ section at the end of the article. This section contains [cross-references](#cross_references) to related topics within MDN and sometimes links to related external articles.
